LXC provision
======================

As always, the configuration is done via a registry module: :ref:`module_mc_cloud_lxc`.
To provision a new lxc provider, you need to:

    - Select a profile type (combination of backing mode (lvm/dir) and install
      mode (clone/create)
    - Select a size profile if you are using block level backing stores (LVM)
    - Select a mode: mastersalt (localmaster+minion and a minion linked to
      mastersalt) or salt (only a minion linked to master)
    - add an entry to your lxc container in pillar reflecting those choices plus
      the other vm parameters.

* We create a default container in mastersalt node named **makina-states-precise**.
  In cloning mode, this is the default origin container.
* You can of course either start an lxc from scratch or begin with
  a template like a barebone ubuntu which will be cloned at a start.
* By default, we use the **10.5/16* network on tje **lxcbr1** bridge using the default gateway: **10.5.0.1**.
* We use **LVM** as the default backing store in production, and the **lxc** volume group.
* We use **overlayfs** with snapshot in development mode.

To create new VMS, just configure your pillar and add some entries as follow

.. code-block:: yaml

  makina-states.services.cloud.lxc.targets.devhost10.local:
    # -> autogenerated ip + mac + password stored in grains, name is id (mysupertest3.foo.co,
    #   will use default configured profile & settings
    mysupertest3.foo.com: {}
    # explicit configuration and not using mastersalt mode
    gfoobar.test.com:
      profile: small
      profile_type: lvm
      password: foobar
      ip: 10.5.10.16
    # -> autogenerated ip + mac
    gfoobar4.test.com:
      ip: 10.5.10.15
      profile: small
      mode: mastersalt
      profile_type: lvm
      password: foobar
    # -> autogenerated ip + mac + password stored in grains
    gfoobar3.test.com:
      ip: 10.5.10.17
      # from_container: makina-states-precise -> default
      profile_type: dir
      mode: mastersalt
      password: foobar
      bootsalt_branch: stable
    gfoobar2.test.coma:
      ip: 10.5.10.17
      # image: ubuntu -> default
      profile_type: dir-scratch
      mode: mastersalt
      password: foobar

* The first line ends (after **containers.**) with your targeted minion id, where the lxc containers will be installed.
* You have to assign the ip yourself to something that will be in the **10.5/16** network or the targeted minion
* MAC is autogenerated if not providen, so you dont need to give one
* IP is autogenerated if not providen, so you dont need to give one
* PASSWORD autogenerated if not providen, so you dont need to give one
* And the inner mappings define the container themselves.
* Please note that the name in makina-corpus way must be the NickName FQDN.
* Please do not use **snapshot** in production.

Misc notes
----------
* Salt cloud profiles are just collections of default for your next provision.

 * The naming scheme of raw salt-cloud is ms-**{encoded minion id}**[-**{size profile}**]-**{profile type}**, eg profiles::

    ms-devhost-10-local-dir-scratch
    ms-devhost-10-local-dir
    ms-devhost-10-local-small-lvm-scratch
    ms-devhost-10-local-medium-lvm

* Those are the availables modes:

    :salt: cf saltity modes
    :mastersalt: cf saltity modes

* You can specify the makina-states branch to use with:

   :bootsalt_branch: branch name

* Those are the sizes available in profiles

        :xxxtrem: 2000g
        :xxtrem: 1000g
        :xtrem: 500g
        :xxxlarge: 100g
        :large: 20g
        :medium: 10g
        :small: 5g
        :xsmall: 3g
        :xxsmall: 1g
        :xxxsmall: 500m

* Those are the types available in salt-cloud profiles

    :lvm-sratch: starting a lxc container from scratch (lvm backing)
    :lvm: cloning from existing container (lvm backing)
    :dir-scratch:  starting a lxc container from scratch (directory backing)
    :dir: cloning from existing container (directory backing)
    :overlayfs-scratch:  starting a lxc container from scratch (overlayfs backing)
    :overlayfs: cloning from existing container (overlayfs backing)

* Attention, we need also that root from **controller** can connect both as saltmaster and
  via ssh to either the **computenode** and the **lxc** node as root without password (sshkey).
  Please not that the states normally do that setup for you but that may be
  a start of investigation in case of problems.

Remove a vm
------------
To destroy at once boxes and minion keys on master::

    salt-cloud -d <name>

Get infos for a VM
----------------------
To know specific settings for a vm, like the generated ip and password, you can
inspect the per vm settings.
Those settings are mainly used at creation time but not reapplied after further setup, so they may be obsoletes.
The only "live" settings are the gateway, the ip and ssh_reverse_proxy_port.

Please note that we also give here the **ssh_reverse_proxy_port** to access the vm
from the host::

     mastersalt-call mc_cloud_lxc.get_settings_for_vm <compute_node <vm_name>

For exemple, you can have something like that::

    autostart:
        True
    backing:
        overlayfs
    bootsalt_branch:
        master
    bridge:
        lxcbr1
    dnsservers:
        - 8.8.8.8
        - 4.4.4.4
    domains:
        - nmdcarto51.test.com
    from_container:
        makina-states-precise
    gateway:
        10.5.0.1
    image:
        ubuntu
    ip:
        10.5.0.12
    lxc_conf:
    lxc_conf_unset:
    mac:
        00:16:3e:00:f1:81
    master:
        10.5.0.1
    master_port:
        4606
    mode:
        mastersalt
    name:
        nmdcarto51.test.com
    netmask:
        16
    network:
        10.5.0.0
    password:
        balh
    profile:
        ms-devhost10-local-overlayfs
    script_args:
        -C --from-salt-cloud --mastersalt-minion -b master
    snapshot:
        True
    ssh_gateway:
        devhost10.local
    ssh_gateway_key:
        /root/.ssh/id_dsa
    ssh_gateway_password:
        None
    ssh_gateway_port:
        22
    ssh_gateway_user:
        root
    ssh_reverse_proxy_port:
        40000
    ssh_username:
        ubuntu
    sudo:
        True
    users:
        - root
        - sysadmin


.. _form_cloud_lxc:

Detailed documentation
--------------------------
Exemple of the makina-states.cloud.lxc and how will integrate itself in the previous sequence:
         steps = ['spawn',
                 'hostsfile',
                 'sshkeys',
                 'grains',
                 'initial_setup',
                 'initial_highstate']

    - On the controller front:

        - At run pre configured drivers specific hooks stage:

            - install the salt cloud lxc providers
            - install a cron that sync all defined images templates
              from controller to compute nodes.

        - At compute node post hook

            - install lxc
            - ensure images templates are installed
            - install lxc host specific grains


    - On the vm pre hook:

        - spawn the vm

    - on the vm post hook

        - configure specific lxc grains
        - configure host file
        - initial setup


LXC specific usage
--------------------------

All of those are integrated directly withe mc_cloud_{controller,compute_node,vm}
runners, you do not have to use them directly, this is purely for documentation
purpose.

Controller
+++++++++++
Re run configuration of cloudcontroller::

    mastersalt-run -lall mc_cloud_lxc.post_deploy_controller


compute node
++++++++++++++++++

Install lxc::

    mastersalt-run -lall mc_cloud_lxc.install_vt <computenode_id>

This will call in turn those runners:

    - mc_cloud_lxc.configure_grains  <computenode_id>
    - mc_cloud_lxc.configure_install_lxc  <computenode_id>
    - mc_cloud_lxc.configure_images  <computenode_id>

This will also run the LXC images (templates) syncrhonnisation runner on that specific node.

VM
++++



